[ShiftStack: OSDOCS-2025] Full availability zone Cinder volumes (#32120)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-registry-osp-creating-custom-pvc.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * registry/configuring_registry_storage/configuring-registry-storage.adoc

[id="installation-registry-osp-creating-custom-pvc_{context}"]

> = Configuring an image registry with a custom back end on clusters that run on {rh-openstack}

Reviewer: I would have gone with "Configuring an image registry with custom storage on clusters that run on {rh-openstack}".

"storage" seems to be the common term in the other topics in this section of the TOC.

Author: ```suggestion
= Configuring an image registry with custom storage on clusters that run on {rh-openstack}
```

After you install a cluster on {rh-openstack-first}, you can use a Cinder volume that is in a specific availability zone for registry storage.

.Procedure

> . Create a YAML file that specifies a storage class that includes the availability zone that you want to use. For example:

Reviewer: Does the following lose meaning?

Create a YAML file that specifies the storage class and availability zone to use.

Author: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file that specifies the storage class and availability zone to use. For example:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: custom-csi-storageclass
provisioner: cinder.csi.openstack.org
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
allowVolumeExpansion: true
parameters:
  availability: <availability_zone_name>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
{product-title} does not verify the existence of the availability zone you choose. Verify the name of the availability zone before you apply the configuration.
====

. From a command line, apply the configuration:
+

> .Example input

Reviewer: I think you can omit these `.Example input` block headings without harming our customers.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> .Example input

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <storage_class_file_name>
----
+

> .Example output

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
storageclass.storage.k8s.io/custom-csi-storageclass created
----

. Create a YAML file that specifies a persistent volume claim (PVC) that uses your storage class and the `openshift-image-registry` namespace. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: csi-pvc-imageregistry
  namespace: openshift-image-registry <1>
  annotations:
    imageregistry.openshift.io: "true"
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  volumeMode: Block
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Gi <2>
  storageClassName: <your_custom_storage_class> <3>
----
<1> Enter the namespace `openshift-image-registry`. This namespace allows the Cluster Image Registry Operator to consume the PVC.
<2> Optional: Adjust the volume size.
<3> Enter the name of the storage class that you created. 

. From a command line, apply the configuration:
+

> .Example input

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <pvc_file_name>
----
+

> .Example output

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
persistentvolumeclaim/csi-pvc-imageregistry created
----

. Replace the original persistent volume claim in the image registry configuration with the new claim:
+

> .Example input

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster --type 'json' -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/storage/pvc/claim", "value": "csi-pvc-imageregistry"}]'
----
+

> .Example output

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
config.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster patched
----
+
Over the next several minutes, the configuration is updated.

> . Verify that the registry is using the resources that you defined:

Reviewer: Any reason not to include a `.Verification` block title?

Author: ```suggestion
.Verification

To confirm that the registry is using the resources that you defined:
```

> .. Verify that the PVC claim value is identical to the name that you provided in your PVC definition:

Author: ```suggestion
. Verify that the PVC claim value is identical to the name that you provided in your PVC definition:
```

+

> .Example input

Reviewer: This `.Example input` block title use is new to me.  I don't see what benefit it adds for our customers.

> .Example input

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml
----
+

> .Example output

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
...
status:
    ...
    managementState: Managed
    pvc:
      claim: csi-pvc-imageregistry
...
----

> .. Verify that the status of the PVC is `Bound`:

Author: ```suggestion
. Verify that the status of the PVC is `Bound`:
```

+

> .Example input

Author: ```suggestion
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pvc -n openshift-image-registry csi-pvc-imageregistry
----
+

> .Example output

Author: ```suggestion
```
